# Solvers

The project implements few solvers to solve equations of the form

f(x, L) = s

where

s = vector of observations (signal)

L = matrix of fixed coeffients (library)

x = vector of unknown coefficients that needs to be solved (weights)


## Implemented solvers

**LS solvers**

Assumes that f is linear (xL = s). Solves x using using least squares method.

**GD solvers**

Solves f(x,L) = s using Gradient descent as optimization method. Function f is given by user.

**GN solvers**

Solves f(x,L) = s using Gauss-Newton as optimization method. Function f is given by user.

**EA solvers**

Solves f(x,L) = s using evolutionary algorithm as optimization method. Function f is given by user.

**NN solvers**

Solves f(x,L) = s by constraining fit so that all x values are non-negative.

**Robust solvers**

Solves f(x,L) = s using robust fit that can handle considerable amount of outliers.


## Dependencies

**Required**
- armadillo
- boost

**Optional** 
- Python 2.7 + matplotlib (plotting)
- doxygen (document generation)

**Installation**

To install all dependencies, run
```
$ ./scripts/install_libraries.sh
```


## Build

Release version:
```
$ ./scripts/make_build.sh
```

Debug version:
```
$ ./scripts/make_build.sh -d
```


## Testing

In build/tests directory run

```
$ ctest --verbose
```


## Document generation

To generate documentation you need to have doxygen installed. In docs folder run

```
doxygen doxygen-config 
```

This will produce generated_docs folder which will contain autogenerated code documentation. 


## Usage

**Solver interface**

Every solver uses solver interface. For supported methods, see Solver class documentation. 

**Basic usage**

Initialize solver you want use, e.g. Gauss-Newton solver, with wanted parameters.

```
auto solver = GNSolver(L);
```

Then solve x using solve method by passing signal as argument.

```
auto solution = solver.solve(s);
```

**Combination solver**

Some of the functionalities can be combined together. We can make e.g. robust RANSAC solver that uses gradient descent for optimization.

```
auto solver = GDSolver(L);
std::shared_ptr<GDSolver> solver_ptr(new GDSolver(solver));
auto ransac_solver = RansacSolver(solver_ptr, n_channels, accepted_error, n_accepted_points);
```
  
**Setting model**

All the solvers use linear model by default. Numerical solver can use different model specified by user. We can make e.g. Gauss-Newton solver that uses quadratic model.

```
arma::mat quadratic_model(arma::mat x, arma::mat L)
{
    return x * arma::pow(L, 2);
}

auto gn_solver = GNSolver(L);
gn_solver.set_model(quadratic_model);
```

**More information**

For more information, see examples in samples folder.


## Notes

Code tested with Ubuntu 18.04.3 LTS / gcc 7.4.0
